---
layout:     post
title:      "PSDC 2016"
subtitle:   "\"Provincial School Debate Competition is so memeable\" - Claire 2016"
date:       2016-11-05 3:50:00
author:     "Jeffina"
header-img: "img/post-bg-debate.jpg"
catalog: true
tags:
    - high school
    - debating
    - academics
    - personal
---
It's not surprising that although we've never actually had proper training in debating, we somewhat become aware of what a good debate is and how we **should*** debate --just by watching a bunch of national debating competitions through YouTube. Sometimes we even try doing reenactment of certain participants whom stood out from the 'video sessions' (and possibly make jokes about them).

It was a couple of days after midterms when our debating teacher decide to show up with a piece of paper, while panting. It appears she had been running from the teachers' room to the second floor in a matter of seconds. "We got an invitation."

This could mean two things:

1) There's another school out there who wants to 'challenge' us on a debate session.
2) There's a debating training camp somewhere nearby and the organizer wants us to come.

It was neither. She then proceeded to read the contents of the paper aloud as we scrambled around her, leaving whatever mess we were doing. Words like "PSDC" came out of her mouth along with "2 weeks long" and "in Anyer".

My seniors started jumping in excitement, grabbing onto each other. Meanwhile my friends and I are in complete darkness of what those words mean. So I started blasting them with questions, "What's a PSDC?" and "who's gonna go?"

After the entire thrill had died down, my seniors sat down and decided to make the rest of the club gathering sessions become a seminar for newbies. They explained that just like olympiads, debating also has national championship. The roadmap is similar to olympiads, whoever came on top three during city-level championship can proceed to the provincial, then after that the nationals. Overall, what this invitation means is that we got to be in the provincial-level with invitations, so we don't have to win that top-three position in the city-level championship.

I was wowed, to be honest. I didn't know that my seniors have *that much* winning streaks to the point where the Ministry of Education knows that. Then my seniors decided to step down from the main roster, because they [have been there, have done that]. They think that it'd be best if they let the juniors take the spotlight this year. It's honestly so heart-wrenching because I know deep down, they want to go, and they can, but they won't.

### Six Debating Practice Sesh In A Week ###
It is crazy how basic things salty people do like getting into an argument can really take a toll on someone's sanity. I finished classes around 5PM, usually it's already quite dark outside and the entire school will be emptied out for the next 30 minutes because they need to close down the school at 7PM. My class is always known to be the last class standing, we finished classes so late, that at one point the janitor had to wait in front of our classroom like a security guard, pouting.

I was just about to head to the exit gate when my friend yelled at me from the basketball field. "J, you gotta practice!". Feeling a headache coming up and a sense of iritation I yelled back, "What practice?!". I cursed at myself, looking around hoping that no teacher was around to hear me. I was so tired, I have chemistry final project presentation tomorrow and my Art class teacher decided that it'd *fun* to make all of us students write a play for contemporary theater.

"Come on, we have one motion left in our practice guide." She assured me. Great, now I have to inform my dad that I'm going home late *again* today.

This keeps happening over the course of one week. There's only one day where we didn't held extra practice sessions after class periods, and it's because of Labor's Day. But guess what, my seniors have a wonderful idea of giving us extra homework: to case build a bunch of motions for both Government and Opposition house and we'll have to debate them tomorrow --kind of like prepared motions. I LOVE them even more now.

How sick and tired I am with this? Enough to make me woke up at 10AM the next morning, in such a delirious state thinking it's still Labor's Day. Then my mom decided to warp me back my awareness that I was supposed to go to class that day to submit my chemistry final papers. Yeah, well *shit*. I tell myself to remain calm, I can prep everything in under 10 minutes, makes view final changes of the papers and I can just submit them through email. Except, I dont know my chem teacher's email. Dumb move.

I called my homeroom teacher, telling her that I'll skip school today (only to come by later after school ends for more debating session). I asked her if she knows the whereabouts of my chem teacher because I need to talk to her, and explained that it's regarding my final papers. She flat out gave her phone to my chem teacher (who was possibly sitting next to her). I swallowed hard.

How am I going to explain to her that I stayed really late last night case building motions until it's 2:30AM, fell asleep and forgot to set my alarms? Well, I didn't. I *professionally* asked her if I can just submit the final papers through her emails, straight to the point. I also made up some bullshit reasons like it's to save ink and papers, save the trees and such.

There was a long silence at the end of the phone before she muttered, "Okay, here's my email--". I curled my fist up in victory and submitted my final papers. I passed the class with an A-. A minus! Through sheer chaos that happened in that week, I survived my chemistry class and it still brings me joy until today when I looked back on it.

### A Very Anxious Road Trip and Arrival ###
Road trips should be fun. But it can turn into something depressing when your school was late to pick you up, resulting in your team being late for the championship. The trip was supposed to be a 3-hour long journey. It turned into 5. The driver took the wrong turn towards the exit. So we ended up in a middle of nowhere, with (somehow) little to no phone signals, nearly ran out of gas and everybody in that area looks like they're ready to mug us.

Very thrilling indeed.

Once we managed to pull up Google Maps (I owe them my life, seriously), my friends and I decided to quickly run back into the car and called our driver. Half-assed lying that we know which way to go, anything just to get out of that dreadful place. I managed to get directions on my phone and once the driver got into the car I just gave him my phone, believing he'll know what to do.

A couple of hours later we finally arrived at the venue. Surprise, surprise it's a hotel by the beach. Probably the fanciest place I've ever step my feet on. We checked in and got the goodies from the organizer. Things like bags, schedules, etc. All three of us got a one big room for ourselves. Immediately after that, we all scrambled to this one big table in the middle of the room, pulled up a chair and started stressing over the rumours surrounding motions because of this one screenshot our seniors sent us over the group chat. The motions in that picture are not like what we've seen before, nothing like in our practice sesh, *ever*.

Then our teenager existential crisis mode kicked in. "Well you know what, at least we have this awesome room to ourselves." my friend said. "Yeah, and unsupervised." I eyed on them.

### The Championship ###
You know in every championship I am in, things always go south towards the end. We survived octo-final and quarter-final. We decided we should celebrate with watching this one not-really-gay-but-it-was-pretty-gay-for-16-year-olds movie: Brideshead Revisited. I pulled up my laptop (which for no reason I decided to bring it with me), I have illegally downloaded it into my hard drives. Everyone is snuggling under the covers, feeling guilty because watching something like this for 15/16 year olds like us feel like watching porn.

Near the end of the movie, we got a call from one of the organizer, telling us that we haven't used our dinner coupon that night. Well, my friend explained --a.k.a lied, that we passed out after today's competition and forgot that we need to have dinner before 8PM (it was currently 10PM). Then, we continued watching other movies like Selma for another two hours before realizing it's 1AM. So I turned off my laptop and we fell asleep within minutes after that.

Waking up at 5AM wasn't exactly in our plates that day. I, personally struggled to get out of the covers. It's just too warm and comfy, and showers didn't really feel energizing (I hate showering in the morning). I got slapped twice by my friend, but honestly, thanks to her I woke up. After getting dressed up, we head to the dining hall to get our breakfast.

It was finally Semi-Final Day. We don't really have to case build for anything because they haven't announced the motions yet. And particularky that morning, we weren't feeling anxious at all, our heads were just, *empty*. Sleep deprivation really hit us hard and that was where the problem started. Because once they gave us our motions, none of the words make sense to us. We couldn't scrape any arguments ideas out of our heads until the very last 10 minutes of case building session. So you can only imagine, when we were called back into the debating room, we were still jotting down and scribbling things out on our post-it notes/notebooks. And when the opposition team was delivering their arguments we were still coming up with ideas of arguments.

But, we thank the Lord for His kindness, because once we listened to our opponents arguments, it was very much *trashy*. Yes, they have a lot points but none of them were being explored deep enough to form a substantial enough argument. Being an asshole myself, as the 2nd speaker of the house I decided to lash out on their points once I got my turn. I dare say that: we **crushed** the opponents. My friend did a very well done delivery speech as the 3rd speaker and our arguments were all *crispy* and *hot*. We backed it up with decent amount of sources, examples and simple logics. It was the best feeling and we all know that we'd win this round.

Yeah, except we don't. The adjudicators apparently think that our arguments were very rough because it "**seems**"(??) like our way of delivering arguments were too fast for them to catch any points. Like, how's that our fault? All we were trying to do was to deliver these three-page long notations in under 7 minutes. Of course we need to rush some things otherwise we won't have enough time. This isn't a speech competition. I sure as hell we weren't mumbling, I still can hear and clearly understand what my teammates were saying, how can you --as adjudicators-- not?

We were very heartbroken by the decision. But the decision's made and we couldn't change anything. So the only thing we can do is to *accept* that we lost the round which we all--even the opponents--sure that we were going to win.

We cried, obviously. A lot of tears shed for nothing really. We called our seniors and apologized. Soon enough, we realized that one of the adjudicators is actually the opponents' english teacher. Because we saw him getting in the same room as those boys, talked to them like a teacher would to students. I don't know if knowing facts like this actually helped with our loss or just making it worse. But we sure learn a lot of things thanks to that.

### The Aftermath ###
We came back from the championship feeling tired and ready to go home, probably cry ourselves to sleep. Days even weeks of preparation and hardwork just *poof*, gone because one single bad combination. I told my mom about the entire *fiasco*. She said that things like that happened in real-life and sometimes the cost isn't as simple as losing a championship. I don't think I'll ever understand what she said, only time will tell.

— MJ 2016.11
