---
layout:     post
title:      "Best Parts of Astronomy Olympiad Training Camp"
subtitle:   "Pranks and energy drinks aside..."
date:       2017-03-11 3:50:00
author:     "MJ"
header-img: "img/post-bg-astro.jpg"
catalog: true
tags:
    - high school
    - olympiads
    - academics
---
Here are lists of the best parts of getting into an Astronomy Olympiad training camp plus some other weird, unimaginable things we did during this low-key depressing times. Enjoy! 

The trainers are very fun people! And this 'weird' activities support my statement. 

In training camp, we usually woke up around 6AM (though I slept through multiple times) and getting ready for the first period of study session around 8AM. We always have breakfast together in the dining hall, and this is literally the best time to socialize and meet new friends! Because once you got your brain into that 'studying' mode, you'll find yourself unable to communicate with other humans. But that doesn't stop the trainers from asking us to do silly things; for the sake of lighting up the mood of everyone. They're literally the best!

---

>This is 2020 Jeff redacting: I can't find any pictures from this period though I remember there were a lot of them. It's understandable considering I wasn't a really super aware human being on backing up my pics/data and I got my phone stolen once after this era. Soz.

---
### 1. Push-Up Challenges ###
Whenever there's a student who fell asleep or at the very least, look sleepy. One of the trainer will ask him to answer questions while doing push ups! Never thought that doing push ups (or any exercise) can actually make you feel more energized, until I got the so-so *unfortunate* opportunity to try it out. It was after we did reviews on synodic periods when my eyes felt very heavy. I decided to close them just for a split second, but me being a dumbass slept through the entire lunch break. 

My friends woke me up with a light shake and then started giggling. I realized what had happened and immediately got up from my chair and settled on my push-up position. The teacher made me do calculations on sky objects' mechanics. Thanks to him, that became my strongest unit.

### 2. "Let's Go Look At The Stars"
To be honest, this one is the coolest. Our trainers would wake us up around 4-5AM just to look at the stars. It's actually going to be so useful, because in Nationals there'll be a problem section which required naked-eye sky observation skill. They always start with easy questions like, "where is Venus?" or "what does it mean if the Orion constelation is visible?" and then exponentially gets harder and harder. But because of the cool ~~~morning~~~--dawn breeze, it became somewhat *calming*, we weren't feeling pressured or anything. So when your answers are wrong, you'd less likely going to be salty about it the whole day.

Sometimes, they'd bring this mini telescope and taught us how to use it. They'd also give us cool/eye-opening facts related to the question they were asking. It's a fun "exercise" overall.

### 3. It's Okay To Blast EDM Music ###
Our trainers are both avid fans of Avicii. So at random times, when all of us are chilling in the class after working on a PSet all day, just randomly chatting or scrolling through Twitter and Instagram --they'd blast Avicii songs using the classroom's speakers. Sometimes we'd complain about how loud it was (not that we hate it, we just felt bad for disturbing other classes) and other times, we actually enjoyed it and requested them for another Avicii songs. 

This can go on until either: a) A teacher gives us a warning or b) Spotify looses interest and starts throwing random EDM songs.

### 4. Bets
I mean, this one isn't really special, considering a lot of us bet on petty things, on daily basis. But, it's funny when your friend has to buy chocolate for -what they think--as the most beautiful/handsome person in the entire training camp. Most of the time, they don't even know each other. Just a rando giving another rando some chocolates. Other times, if they're lucky enough, it's the person sitting in front of them. 

Bets can go crazier than this. Students often bet on their own trainers too: who's smarter than who, giving them brain teaser questions, who is the worst mathematician, etc. Some things just never gets old!

### 5. Random People Giving Random Motivation
At times, there are people who knows that there are a bunch of high school students --working our asses off for the olympiad, at the same hotel they stayed in. It's really surprising and energizing to be greeted by people who are literally strangers and being given little motivational quotes to go through the day.

### 6. Discovering Other Interests Amongst The 'Space People'
It's very surprising when you got a new friend and as it turns out they like completely opposite things from astronomy. I've met students who are very addicted to literature (he said: "especially ancient greek") and other students who wanted to become a classical composer. When you're around these people you got to explore a bunch of perspectives and it's really eye-opening. One of the most asked question would be: "Then why did you do astronomy olympiad?" --and from that on, you can have the craziest, mind-bending answers you wouldn't expect to get. 

It can as simple as: "I like stars, bro, have you looked at them?". Go up a little more and you get: "I hate pure physics, but I like this one." or "To answer the universe's greatest mystery~ How the f*ck was it made?!". Even as crazy as: "There are infinite numbers of universes out there, there could be Aliens. I want to know. I NEED TO KNOW. \*slams desks\*" 

Obviously they're the weird ones. But, it's fun because we get to make memes out of them.

---
As I'm writing this, I'm still on the last week of training camp. Meaning one week before Nationals! So, there might be some updates or new additions to this list. 

**UPDATE:** I'm happy that this list still stands against the flow of time. Results just came in and I placed 3rd in Theoretical, 5th in Practicals and 4th in Observation; which placed me in 4th Overall rank in Nationals 🎊. Sad that I can't go to Internationals but then again, I have national examinations closing in and no matter how much I hate exams I have to graduate too 😂.