---
layout:     post
title:      "Anthony Goddamn Stark"
subtitle:   "A saga about me becoming addicted to this dude."
date:       2019-10-29 3:50:00
author:     "MJ"
header-img: "/img/bg-tv-shows.jpg"
catalog: true
tags:
    - rant
    - hobbies
    - marvel
---
Now if any of you know me in real life, my favorite Avengers will always be the easiest question to answer. It's Tony Stark, a.k.a. Iron Man. How exactly I got here is rather a long story, but since I got a blog to mediate it, I'm going to do it. Tracing back into my own timeline. 

Probably not the most anticipated blog post ever, but I'm tired of keep reminding myself how I came to like Tony in the first so I decided to just blog about it so I can read it whenever.

---

#### 2009 -- That One Movie Night
I was around 8 years old when my brother asked me to stay up late with him watching the first Iron Man movie because it was being played in this local TV channel. Late here meant that we're going to sleep past 9PM. I agreed to him anyway, though I know I'd probably pass out halfway into the movie.

I brought my pillows and my toys to the living room. Making myself comfortable, because laying on the floor, watching TV for 2 hours or so was an exhaustive task for my 8 year old self, apparently. And yeah, I found it so exhaustive, because 1/3 into the movie I realized that Iron Man is just another version of RoboCop. My brother was crazy about anything mecha back then (he was 11); he loved Transformers, RoboCop, Ultraman, Tamiya and Animal Kaiser(???). 

Knowing this, I wasn't surprised that Iron Man is similar to these types of movies he likes. But I continued watching it anyway until the end, because there's something about this Tony Stark guy that really gives off a different vibe than other characters I've seen in movies that my brother loved to watch.

And no, this is not 'love in the first sight' type of moment because I quickly forgot about it and head to sleep that night, never really minding about the movie anymore.

#### 2010 -- Two Movies In A Row